[Reporting] Kibana Application Privileges for Reporting (#94966)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/security/reporting.asciidoc

users the privilege by assigning them the `reporting_user` role in Elasticsearch. In 7.13 and above, you have
the option to create your own roles that grant access to reporting features using <<kibana-privileges, {kib} privileges>> instead.

It is recommended that you set `xpack.reporting.roles.enabled: false` in your kibana.yml to begin using Kibana
privileges. This will allow users to only see Reporting widgets in applications when they have privilege to use
them. 

[NOTE]
============================================================================
The default value of `xpack.reporting.roles.enabled` is `true` for 7.x versions of Kibana. To migrate users to the
new method of securing access to Reporting, you must explicitly set `xpack.reporting.roles.enabled: false` in
`kibana.yml`. In the next major version of Kibana, having this set to `false` will be the only valid configuration.
============================================================================

This document discusses how to create a role that grants access to reporting features using the new method of
Kibana application privileges. 

[float]
[[reporting-roles-management-ui]]

> === Creating the role in the `native` realm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create the role in the `native` realm
```

> To create roles, use the *Roles* UI or <<reporting-roles-user-api, user API>>. This example shows how to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create roles, use the *Roles* UI or <<reporting-roles-user-api, user API>>. This example shows how to
```

> *Roles* page to create a role that grants reporting feature privileges in Kibana applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create a role that grants reporting feature privileges in {kib} applications.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/reporting-privileges-example.png["Reporting privileges"]

> . Add space privileges that include permission to use Reporting for the necessary Kibana applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add space privileges for the {kib} applications that allow access to the reporting options.
```

+

> To allow users to CSV create reports in Discover, or PDF reports in Canvas,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow users to create CSV reports in *Discover*, or PDF reports in *Canvas*,
```

> Visualize editor and Dashboard, click the "Add Kibana privilege" button expand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Visualize Library*, and *Dashboard*, click  *Add Kibana privilege* for each application,
```

> the menu for each application, and grant the role the privileges to generate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then select the privileges to generate
```

> reports by choosing "All" privileges for all features, or "Customize" to grant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reports. For example, select *All* privileges for all features, or *Customize* to grant
```

> the role the privilege to generate reports for only certain applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the privilege to generate reports for only specific applications.
```

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/reporting-custom-role.png["Reporting custom role"]

. Save your new role.

. Open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Users*, add a new user, and assign the user 

> your new custom role, `custom_reporting_user`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your new `custom_reporting_user` role, .
```

[float]
[[reporting-roles-user-api]]
==== With the user API
This example uses the {ref}/security-api-put-role.html[role API] to create a role that

> grants the privilege to generate reports in Canvas, Discover, Visualize Editor, and Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
grants the privilege to generate reports in *Canvas*, *Discover*, *Visualize Library*, and *Dashboard*.
```

> This role is meant to be granted to users in combination with other roles that grant access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This role is meant to be granted to users in combination with other roles that grant read access
```

> read to the necessary data in Elasticsearch, and at least "read" access in the applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the data in {es}, and at least read access in the applications
```

where they'll generate reports.

[source, sh]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/role/custom_reporting_user
{
  metadata: {},
  elasticsearch: { cluster: [], indices: [], run_as: [] },
  kibana: [
    {
      base: [],
      feature: {
        dashboard: [
          'generate_screenshot_report', <1>
          'download_csv_dashboard_panel' <2>
        ],
        discover: ['generate_csv_report'], <3>
        canvas: ['generate_screenshot_report'], <4>
        visualize: ['generate_screenshot_report'], <5>
      },
      spaces: ['*'],
    }
  ]
}
---------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

> <1> Grants access to generate PNG and PDF reports in the Dashboard application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Grants access to generate PNG and PDF reports in *Dashboard*.
```

> <2> Grants access to download CSV files from saved search panels in the Dashboard application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Grants access to download CSV files from saved search panels in *Dashboard*.
```

> <3> Grants access to generate CSV reports from saved searches in Discover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Grants access to generate CSV reports from saved searches in *Discover*.
```

> <4> Grants access to generate PDF reports in Canvas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Grants access to generate PDF reports in *Canvas*.
```

> <5> Grants access to generate PNG and PDF reports in the Visualize editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Grants access to generate PNG and PDF reports in *Visualize Library*.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/reporting-privileges-example.png["Reporting privileges"]

. Add space privileges for the {kib} applications that allow access to the reporting options.
+
To allow users to create CSV reports in *Discover*, or PDF reports in *Canvas*,
*Visualize Library*, and *Dashboard*, click  *Add Kibana privilege* for each application,
then select the privileges to generate
reports. For example, select *All* privileges for all features, or *Customize* to grant
the privilege to generate reports for only specific applications.
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::user/security/images/reporting-custom-role.png["Reporting custom role"]
+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 2: I don't see this note in the text.

Author: That is strange. I see the note when I run the local docs server:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/908371/115444306-3e42dd80-a1c9-11eb-8f90-5b7d0ca7c359.png)

Author: After merging, I checked that this note is indeed visible in the published docs: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/secure-reporting.html

This role is meant to be granted to users in combination with other roles that grant read access
to the data in {es}, and at least read access in the applications
where they'll generate reports.

[source, sh]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/role/custom_reporting_user
{
  metadata: {},
  elasticsearch: { cluster: [], indices: [], run_as: [] },
  kibana: [
    {
      base: [],
      feature: {
        dashboard: [
          'generate_report', <1>
          'download_csv_report' <2>
        ],
        discover: ['generate_report'], <3>
        canvas: ['generate_report'], <4>
        visualize: ['generate_report'], <5>
      },
      spaces: ['*'],
    }
  ]
}
---------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

<1> Grants access to generate PNG and PDF reports in *Dashboard*.
<2> Grants access to download CSV files from saved search panels in *Dashboard*.
<3> Grants access to generate CSV reports from saved searches in *Discover*.
<4> Grants access to generate PDF reports in *Canvas*.
<5> Grants access to generate PNG and PDF reports in *Visualize Library*.

[float]

> === If you are using an external identity provider

Reviewer 2: Change this title as you changed the previous title that started with "If you are using..."  Would "With an external provider" work?

Author: How about "When using an external provider"?

This is a higher-level heading than the title that you mentioned.

  - "cn=Bill Murray,dc=example,dc=com"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
=== With a custom index

> If you are using Reporting with a custom index,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a custom index,
```

  - "cn=Bill Murray,dc=example,dc=com"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[float]
=== With a custom index

If you are using a custom index,
the `xpack.reporting.index` setting should begin 
with `.reporting-*`. The default {kib} system user has
`all` privileges against the `.reporting-*` pattern of indices.

[source,js]
xpack.reporting.index: '.reporting-custom-index'

If you use a different pattern for the `xpack.reporting.index` setting,
you must create a custom `kibana_system` user with appropriate access to the index, similar
to the following:

. Open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Roles*.
. Click *Create role*, then name the role `custom-reporting-user`.
. Specify the custom index and assign it the `all` index privilege.
. Open the main menu, then click *Stack Management > Users* and create a new user with
the `kibana_system` role and the `custom-reporting-user` role.
. Configure {kib} to use the new account:
[source,js]
elasticsearch.username: 'custom_kibana_system'

[NOTE]
============================================================================

> Setting a custom index for Reporting will be unsupported in the next major version of Kibana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting a custom index for *Reporting* is not supported in the next major version of Kibana.
```
